.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" This documentation may be distributed under the terms of
.\" the GNU General Public Licence version 2.
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH WMND 1 "Jul 1, 2002"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
WMND \- WindowMaker network device monitor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wmnd
.RI "{ " options " }"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B WMND
is a WindowMaker dock application that shows a graph of the network traffic
of the past few minutes, current activity and current and overall send
and receive rates. Additionally it can launch any program in response to
mouse clicks.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-i " interface
Select the interface to start with.
.TP
.BI "\-I " interface
Interfaces to monitor. Defaults to all but lo and irda.
.TP
.BI "\-D " driver
Specify a driver to use. Defaults to auto-probe.
.TP
.B \-l
Start using long device names.
.TP
.B \-m
Start with maximal values hidden.
.TP
.B \-t
Start without displaying connection time of ppp links.
.TP
.B \-M
Use the maximal values of the entire history.
.TP
.BI "\-w " mode
Select display mode to start with.
Use
.B wmnd \-h
for a list of available display modes.
Right clicks on the graph cycle through all available modes.
.TP
.BI "\-r " rate
refresh rate in microseconds
.TP
.BI "\-s " scroll
scroll rate in tenths of seconds
.TP
.BI "\-S " steps
Number of scroll steps to wait before updating the speed rate indicator.
.TP
.B \-b
Scale the values of the maximum and current rate by factors of base 2 instead
of the default 10-based scaling. (1K equals 1024 in binary mode, but 1000
in decimal mode.)
.TP
.BI "\-c " color
tx color
.TP
.BI "\-C " color
rx color
.TP
.BI "\-L " color
middle line color
.TP
.BI "\-d " display
Draw onto X11 display \fIdisplay\fP
.TP
.BI "\-f " config
Read \fIconfig\fP instead of \fB~/.wmndrc\fP
.TP
.B \-F
Don't parse \fB~/.wmndrc\fP
.TP
.B \-h
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-v
Show version of \fBWMND\fP.
.TP
.B \-q
Be less verbose (display only errors).
.TP
.B \-Q
Show informational messages.
.TP
.BI "\-o " float
Smoothing factor (a float from 0 to 1).
.TP
.BI "\-n " name
Change the \fBWMND\fP class/title name (defaults to "wmnd").

.SH USAGE
.SS Active Interface
You can cycle in realtime through all available active interfaces
by simply left-clicking on the interface name gadget on the
upperleft corner of \fBWMND\fP.
.PP
The 'lo' interface is an exception, 'lo' only works when invoked
from the commandline (\fBwmnd \-I lo\fP), lo was mainly built in for
testing purposes.
.SS Device Name
By default, \fBWMND\fP show device name in short term of four characters,
for example, the ippp0 will be displayed as ipp0.  You can toggle
the device name between short and long by right-click on it.
.SS Graphic Mode
Left-click on the main graphic area to cycle the graphic mode.
.SS Max Meter
Left-click to toggle the history max or screen max, default is
screen max when \fBWMND\fP is startup.  Right-click to hide or display.
.SS Byte/Packet Mode
Left-click on the letter gadgeted on the right-top corner can switch
between the Byte or Packet counter mode. "B" for byte, "p" for packet.
.SS User Script
Click on the bottom rate meter can invoke the user command defined in
resource file .wmndrc.
.SS Dragging WMND
Be sure to drag \fBWMND\fP on it's outer edges, it's a bit picky due
to the large gfx pixmap it keeps. You can also use a
keyboard and mouse shortcut (perhaps ALT+left-click) in your window
manager to drag it around.
.SS Drivers
.TP
.B solaris_fpppd
Solaris/Linux ppp streams driver. Gathers device data from /dev/ppp. Uses code
from the Solaris/Linux pppd server and it should work wherever Solaris/Linux
pppd works.
.TP
.B linux_proc
Reads data from the linux
.BR proc (5)
virtual filesystem.
.TP
.B freebsd_sysctl
Uses the MIB to gather device statistics under FreeBSD (offline
devices handling is buggy, support needed!)
.TP
.B solaris_kstat
Gather all devices of class net from the kstat library.
.TP
.B irix_pcp
Reads metrics from the IRIX Performance Co-Pilot daemon. Read
the README for problems with this driver.
.TP
.B generic_snmp
Query an IF-MIB capable snmp server for gathering interface
statistics. By default \fIgeneric_snmp\fP connects to localhost and
uses the public community. You can change the community/host/interface
to monitor by using the \fI\-I\fP flag:

.RB [ community @] host [: interface ]

You must specify an interface number, not an interface name. If the
interface number is 0, or there's no interface specification,
\fBWMND\fP will display all available interfaces. By default the
community name is "public". Beware that by specifying an snmp v1
community name on a command line can be dangerous on an multiuser
platform. Please read the README file on the distribution for more
details.
.TP
.B testing_dummy
This is the "last resort" driver, it shows a null device useful only
to make \fBWMND\fP don't exit when all other drivers failed. Can be
enchanged to display something at compile time.
.SH FILES
~/.wmndrc	User configuration.
.PP
The format of this file is:
.nf
.IP
# WMND configuration file
.IP
# middle line color in wave mode
md_color=#71e371
.IP
# RX/TX color (can be #xxxxxx, or a valid color name from rgb.txt)
rx_color=#188a86
tx_color=#00fff2
.IP
# refresh between status polling (not graph scroll speed: this affects
# the speed of those flashing arrows)
# numbering in microseconds
refresh=50000
.IP
# graph scroll speed (in tenth of seconds). This setting affects
# the rate and max speed displays. setting a longer the delay will
# average real values within this interval
scroll=10
.IP
# average sampling for the speed display at the bottom of the pixmap.
# this is the number of times to wait (in terms of scrolling steps) before
# displaying the average speed of that period. The time of the period can
# be calculated (in tenth of seconds) with: scroll * avg_steps.
avg_steps=1
.IP
# smooth: smoothing factor. A float value ranging from 0 to 1. This is
# really the "amount" of the new speed against the history each time is
# sampled from the device. A low value (0.1) will remove random spikes
# from the graph. Values higher than 1 will instead enchange spikes. Only
# the 'bytes' mode is affected by this switch.
# Disabled by default (0).
smooth=0
.IP
# buttons for user scripts
# bt1_action=su -c ethereal
# bt2_action=
# bt3_action=
.IP
# respects the -b in command line (yes, no)
binary_scale=no
.IP
# display or not the device uptime (yes, no)
display_time=yes
.IP
# use a specific driver (driver name, %auto for automatic)
# See -h for a list of available drivers.
driver=%auto
.IP
# Driver's interface to monitor (interface name, %any for all).
# This is actually a parameter to the driver, and may have different
# meanings on different drivers.
#
# linux_proc, freebsd_sysctl, solaris_kstat, solaris_fpppd: a simple
#   interface name on the current host.
# irix_pcp: [host@]interface
# generic_snmp: [community@]host[:interface number]
driver_interface=%any
.IP
# automatically select and show this interface on startup if
# available (interface name, %first for the first one)
interface_name=%first
.IP
# Show max values (yes, no)
show_max_values=yes
.IP
# Use long interface names (yes, no)
use_long_names=no
.IP
# max values through entire history instead of through the last ~50 samples
use_max_history=no
.IP
# display mode (traditional, waveform, wmnet, ...).
# See -h for a list of available modes.
wave_mode=wmnet
.IP
# be less verbose (display only errors)
# quiet=yes
.IP
# change the WMND's class/title name. this is useful under wharf (afterstep)
# to not swallow multiple WMND instances into a single dock. Defaults
# to "wmnd".
# name=wmnd
.fi
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGUSR1
Internally restart all driver's interfaces (only usefull for
programming/testing purposes).
.TP
.B SIGTERM SIGINT
Clean WMND shutdown.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs and suggestion to the current \fBWMND\fR maintainer:
Wave++ <wavexx@users.sf.net>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (3x),
.BR wmaker (1x).
.BR proc (5)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Arthur Korn <arthur@korn.ch>.
The original \fBWMND\fR authour is Reed Lai <reed@wingeer.org>.
